A Teachers Union Has Odd Taste in Books

The NEA’s ‘2023 Summer Reading List’ may make you regret that you ever learned to read.

America’s largest teachers union, the National Education Association, issued its “2023 Summer Reading List” last month. Among its recommendations are “Gender Queer,” a graphic-novel memoir about “identifying outside the gender binary.” The book has been removed from many school libraries in Florida, where I live, but I checked it out at the public library.

I was shocked that a book marketed to young adults (12-18) has so much graphic content. Here’s a sexting dialogue from page 170: “I got a new strap-on harness today. I can’t wait to put it on you. I can’t wait to have your c— in my mouth—I’m going to give you the b— of your life. Then I want you inside me.” On the facing page, color sketches graphically depict this scene.

I posted that quote, with slightly less family-friendly redactions, in the comment section below the NEA reading list, alongside several other comments from other readers. Within an hour, all the comments were deleted and the comment section on the post was closed. The book is listed under the heading “Banned Books: Celebrate the Freedom to Read!” But the NEA doesn’t want people actually to read it.

A day after closing the comment section, the NEA deleted one of its original recommendations—“Milo and Marcos at the End of the World” by Kevin Christopher Snipes. Publisher’s Weekly calls that book an “emotional navigation of faith and queerness” about a boy named Milo who “becomes convinced God is punishing him for being gay.” A “super-religious, super-shy nerd” with “adamantly Republican Presbyterian” parents, Milo falls in love with a Cuban boy named Marcos and believes the world will end if he pursues this romance after a series of natural disasters occur during their courtship.

There are no classics on the list, but there are other edgy recommendations, including “Ready Player One,” which has explicit descriptions of blow-up sex dolls, online brothels and masturbation.

The union also recommends a pair of books by ideologues who argue that America is systemically racist: “White Fragility” by Robin DiAngelo and “Uncomfortable Conversations with a Black Man” by Emmanuel Acho. These are listed under “Books to Celebrate or Understand Juneteenth.” Why not a history book about slavery or the Civil War?

Mr. Acho, a former professional football player and son of Nigerian immigrants, writes that “we will never achieve a post racial America as long as the gears of systemic racism continue to churn.” He lectures white people: “You’ve likely spent your whole life enjoying the fruits of systemic racism and never having to directly engage with its fallout.” Ms. DiAngelo sings a similar tune: “A racism-free upbringing is not possible, because racism is a social system embedded in the culture and its institutions. We are born into this system and have no say in whether we will be affected by it.”

In light of recent parent revolts against ideological indoctrination in schools, you’d think the unions would be at pains to reassure the public that they’re nonpartisan. Instead, they’re doubling down on politics. Then again, at some point the NEA added a disclaimer to its list: “The books here are not recommended for students.” On that we can all agree.
